Please come in and sit down.
NOTE CONF
There are seats in the front.
I think there's a little bit more than 450.
NOTE CONF
Of course.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
So, I mean, there's some.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
They were never.
NOTE CONF
It was never full.
But I don't know how many are still to file
NOTE CONF
in here.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Please, everybody come in and sit down so I can
get started.
NOTE CONF
If there are people near you looking for seats.
Uh, go in to the middle to make space.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Almost everybody is sitting now.
NOTE CONF
Okay So we can begin.
Ah!
NOTE CONF
I can't see my controls.
I'd like to start my, uh.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
I'd like to start my lectures with some music that
NOTE CONF
was also sprach Zarathustra by Richard Strauss.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Welcome.
Uh, welcome to Informatics one.
NOTE CONF
A introduction to Computation, known as Inf1 A for short.
So I know that many of you are starting university
NOTE CONF
today, and this will be your first lecture from the
School of Informatics.
NOTE CONF
I hope it will be a worthy start to the
next four years of your studies.
NOTE CONF
This lecture is going to be an introduction to the
course I'm going to be covering.
NOTE CONF
Uh, who will be teaching you, what will be teaching
and why, uh, when and where the course takes place
NOTE CONF
and how we'll teach you.
And there'll be time for questions at the end.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let's get started.
NOTE CONF
So who who will be teaching you?
So first of all, there's me.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so my name is Don Santella.
Call me Don.
NOTE CONF
Um, I'm lecturing on functional programming, as it says.
Yeah, it does say there.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, uh, and I'm also the overall course organiser, so
NOTE CONF
you'll be getting certain emails from me about the course
as a whole.
NOTE CONF
Uh, the other lecture on the course is Julian Bradfield
here he is a little bit pixilated and over there
NOTE CONF
in real life.
So, um, so Julian is going to be lecturing on
NOTE CONF
computation and logic.
Those are the two strands of the course functional programming
NOTE CONF
and computation and Logic.
Um, so Julie and I are both members of teaching
NOTE CONF
staff in the School of Informatics.
Um, so you'll see Julian lecturing starting on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
Uh, some other people associated with the course.
This is our teaching assistant, Alice Graham.
NOTE CONF
She's working mostly behind the scenes on things like the
tutorial exercises.
NOTE CONF
Um, she's a student like you, I think, uh, fourth
year.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is James Garforth.
Uh, you won't see him.
NOTE CONF
I don't think, unless you're a, um, a student representative.
Um, he's the informatics one course organiser, which means, uh,
NOTE CONF
this course, the the the, um, object oriented programming course,
and the second semester that most of you will be
NOTE CONF
taking, um, cognitive science that some of you will be
taking.
NOTE CONF
So he's responsible for making sure that these all run
smoothly.
NOTE CONF
Um, so he does things like run the staff student
liaison committee meetings.
NOTE CONF
And this is Kendall Reed.
So Kendall, uh, works in the ETO and handles administration
NOTE CONF
of the course.
Um, so what is the ETO?
NOTE CONF
It's the informatics teaching organisation.
This is a very important, uh, thing to know about.
NOTE CONF
So the informatics teaching Organisation, um, is located in Appleton
Tower and the, the main uh, sort of office for
NOTE CONF
inquiries is on level six.
You go in there if you have some sort of
NOTE CONF
problem, some sort of administrative problem that needs to be
solved.
NOTE CONF
So by administrative problem, I mean things like, um, why
haven't I been signed up for a tutorial?
NOTE CONF
Or how do I get an account, um, on the
computers or something like that?
NOTE CONF
Um, not questions like, um, uh, I don't know, something
about logic or functional programming.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, so they, they will help you with questions that
NOTE CONF
are non-academic in the sense of not being about the
content of the course.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
They're very helpful.
NOTE CONF
They may not be able to answer your question, but
they will refer you to the right place to have
NOTE CONF
your question or your problem solved.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, Kendall is on the eighth floor.
Uh, she is working more behind the scenes on things
NOTE CONF
like, um, yeah, tutorial assignments and things like that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Anyway.
Remember.
NOTE CONF
Informatics teaching organisation ETO for short.
They can solve most of your problems.
NOTE CONF
Um, Julie and I, Julian and I can solve very
few of these sorts of problems.
NOTE CONF
So if you email us, um, what will happen is
that there will be a delay before we tell you
NOTE CONF
to go to the Ito.
All right.
NOTE CONF
If it's this sort of problem, um, so it's better
to actually just go there and get your problem sorted
NOTE CONF
out that way.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So those are the people associated with the course.
So what are we teaching you in this course?
NOTE CONF
There's two things.
Two strands, um, that are uh separate but interwoven.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to be teaching you functional programming using
a language called Haskell, which is different from other functions
NOTE CONF
from other programming languages that you might have encountered before.
Has anybody used Haskell here?
NOTE CONF
I see a couple of hands.
okay, but not very many.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So many of you will have done programming before.
NOTE CONF
Um, not all of you.
So don't worry if you haven't, okay?
NOTE CONF
Some of you might have an an awful lot of
experience with programming.
NOTE CONF
So Haskell is different from what you will have seen
if you've done programming before.
NOTE CONF
So Haskell is on functional programming in general.
Is computing based on calculation using data structures without states?
NOTE CONF
I'll explain what I mean by states in the next
lecture.
NOTE CONF
Um, and so this part of the course is Introduction
to programming uh, also known as coding and algorithmic thinking.
NOTE CONF
Um, so the lectures will be mainly on Monday and
Tuesdays and they'll start, start tomorrow.
NOTE CONF
The, the actual content of that strand of the course,
the second strand is logic and computation.
NOTE CONF
So this covers two very important topics in computer science.
Symbolic logic, which is describing and reasoning about information where
NOTE CONF
everything is either true or false.
There's nothing in the middle.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, or at least the kind of symbolic logic you're
NOTE CONF
going to be learning about is, uh, is a is
a logic where everything is either true or false.
NOTE CONF
And the other part of this is finite automata.
This is computing based on, uh, it's a model of
NOTE CONF
computation based on moving between states and response to input.
It's very different style of computation from functional programming, and
NOTE CONF
it's partly presented to show you that there's more than
one, uh, alternative.
NOTE CONF
So the first lecture on this is going to be
on Thursday by Julian, um, who will be starting off
NOTE CONF
with, I guess, the symbolic logic part.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Why do we choose to teach you these topics?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we want to give you a good basis for
your future studies and informatics.
NOTE CONF
Whatever you end up doing here, um, in your studies,
whether it's, you know, AI or theoretical computer science or,
NOTE CONF
I don't know, robotics or machine learning or whatever.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so we believe we, the School of Informatics, believes
that this gives you a solid basis for the study
NOTE CONF
of all these other topics.
And, um, there's interesting connections between these two strands of
NOTE CONF
the course, the functional programming on one hand and the
computational logic on the other hand.
NOTE CONF
So that's that's cool.
We can exploit that.
NOTE CONF
And these things have practical applications that we can refer
to.
NOTE CONF
You won't be doing the practical applications in these course,
but we can at least talk about them as kind
NOTE CONF
of motivation for why for why you're learning these things.
Um, uh, these, uh, this material is accessible to all
NOTE CONF
students regardless of your previous background.
So there are no prerequisites for this course, except that
NOTE CONF
we expect you to have a general background in mathematics,
not because we need you to know specific things as
NOTE CONF
much as we need you to be proficient in, you
know, manipulating formulas and things like that without making mistakes.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So in particular, the reason we choose to teach you
NOTE CONF
Haskell rather than something else is that almost none of
you will have seen it before, which means that the
NOTE CONF
students who have done a lot of programming before will
be on the same sort of footing as students who
NOTE CONF
have done no programming at all.
Okay, it will be different from the programming you might
NOTE CONF
have done before.
And it's also, uh, something whereas you've done no programming.
NOTE CONF
It's a relatively easy kind of entry point to this
world.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And finally, it demonstrates the intellectual depth of informatics.
NOTE CONF
So this is not just technical skills.
What you're learning at university here in informatics.
NOTE CONF
So for instance I'm not teaching you how to write.
Well, I'll teach you how to write Haskell programs.
NOTE CONF
But I'm not just teaching you how to write tactical
programs.
NOTE CONF
I'm trying to teach you how to think about programming.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Using Haskell as a vehicle for that.
So this is the beginning of, uh, of an interesting
NOTE CONF
journey, uh, through through informatics.
So.
NOTE CONF
So when are we teaching you and where where are
the various events in the course taking place?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so, um, let me switch.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
If you go to the timetable for this course, you
get this.
NOTE CONF
This is in path that I think you might have
had an opportunity to visit.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, there are various representations of this timetable that you
can access.
NOTE CONF
So you get this kind of confusing list of of
days and times and boxes with things in them.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, it's a little confusing.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, you see things like, uh, there's a
lecture here.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
I don't know if you can see my cursor.
NOTE CONF
There's a lecture at the top at 1400.
That's the one you're in right now.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so you can see all the things in this
in this course.
NOTE CONF
And there's optional things like tutorials.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let me try to explain this.
Um, in, uh in text.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So first of all, there's the lectures and lectures Monday,
NOTE CONF
Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, all at 210, uh, running until
3:00.
NOTE CONF
They're all here.
Um, congratulations.
NOTE CONF
You've successfully found the first lecture.
Well done.
NOTE CONF
Uh, this is the Oak Lecture Theatre.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
All lectures are here.
Um and uh, functional programming on Monday and Tuesday and
NOTE CONF
computation and logic on Thursday and Friday.
Except next week we're having A11 switch because I need
NOTE CONF
to travel.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So all the lectures are recorded and also live streamed.
So if you, uh, don't feel like coming here, you
NOTE CONF
can watch the, the, the lecture in real time on
the live stream or you can watch it afterwards.
NOTE CONF
It might be that you'll want to watch it afterwards
to pick up something that you missed during the during
NOTE CONF
the lecture as well.
That's also possible.
NOTE CONF
So these these recordings you can access and um, try
to remind yourself of things.
NOTE CONF
So um, the as you know already, um, this is
the this is a map of the King's Buildings campus,
NOTE CONF
this sort of mainly science.
Uh, most of the science departments of the university are
NOTE CONF
here.
Informatics isn't.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, we're in the nucleus building, which is this thing
with the green cross on it.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, okay, so there's the lectures.
NOTE CONF
Uh, another thing is that there's tutorials.
Um, so each of you will be assigned to a
NOTE CONF
tutorial group and you will do, um, tutorial exercises every
week starting next week.
NOTE CONF
That is, there will be tutorial exercises to be submitted
every week starting next week.
NOTE CONF
And can start on them already now.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So in general the tutorial exercises, there will be separate
exercises for the functional programming part of the course and
NOTE CONF
the computation and logic part of the course.
So two sets of exercises each week.
NOTE CONF
They will be issued normally noon on Tuesday, but the
first set is already available now.
NOTE CONF
Um and they're due in a week later.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So your first deadline for tutorial exercises in Tuesday is
Tuesday next week at noon.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so these are a set of exercises that will
take you some time to do these exercises.
NOTE CONF
The first one is easier than some of the following
ones recommended to to do that to pick up points
NOTE CONF
almost for free.
You will be meeting starting in the second week of
NOTE CONF
the semester in small groups.
90 minute tutorials on Thursday or Friday.
NOTE CONF
Okay, the you haven't yet been assigned to a tutorial
group.
NOTE CONF
Um, you will hear when that has been done, I
think.
NOTE CONF
Um.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And the the point of the tutorial groups is to
discuss the exercises that you will have submitted a few
NOTE CONF
days before.
They will have been marked by the time you have
NOTE CONF
your tutorial, uh, group meeting and you'll discuss them with
your tutor.
NOTE CONF
You're in a group of about between 10 and 12
students, so you'll be assigned to a tutorial group.
NOTE CONF
And if it doesn't suit you because of your timetable
or something else, you can, um, you can switch, um,
NOTE CONF
there's a form to do that with.
Uh, there's a question on Piazza about this piazza is
NOTE CONF
the is the forum, uh, question and answer forum for
this for this course.
NOTE CONF
So look there it points you to exactly what you
need to do to switch tutorial groups.
NOTE CONF
Um, don't email me.
I can't do anything about it.
NOTE CONF
Don't email Julian.
He also can't do anything about it.
NOTE CONF
Don't email Kendall.
She also can't do anything about it.
NOTE CONF
Okay, um, there's some central office that does all these
things.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I, uh, right, here's tutorial.
Uh, the tutorials are all over the place.
NOTE CONF
Um, Uh, this is actually last year's maps.
Um, I don't remember if they're in the same place
NOTE CONF
or not.
Anyway, some of them in King's Buildings, some of them
NOTE CONF
in the central part of the university.
Different buildings.
NOTE CONF
Um, right.
The third component or the third kind of event are
NOTE CONF
drop in labs.
So these are every day of the week, uh, with
NOTE CONF
one, one lab in King's Buildings on Monday and all
the other labs in Appleton Tower in the central part
NOTE CONF
of the university.
Um, Monday through Friday.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so these labs, first of all, important is, uh,
you'll see them in your timetable.
NOTE CONF
You'll see that there's there's one every day and two
on Monday.
NOTE CONF
You'll wonder, oh, do I need to go to all
these labs?
NOTE CONF
Uh, the answer is no.
Uh, you can go to any of them, or none
NOTE CONF
of them, or several of them.
You can come at the beginning, you can come in
NOTE CONF
the middle.
What these are are opportunities to get help in person
NOTE CONF
from, uh, from people who are, you know, assigned to
help you out with, with things in this course.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So demonstrators, so, uh, rooms, uh, where you can bring
NOTE CONF
your laptop, um, in the Appleton Tower, you can use
the computers that are actually there already.
NOTE CONF
Um, and you can work on your, on your, on
your tutorial exercises and ask for help if you need
NOTE CONF
it.
So, um, as I said, optional, uh, use them if
NOTE CONF
you need them.
The demonstrators are happy to help you.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
And where are they?
NOTE CONF
Um, so the one in King's buildings, as in this
building.
NOTE CONF
Can you see my cursor?
Yes.
NOTE CONF
You can.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
This building with the Green Cross merchants and House.
That's where they are in King's Buildings.
NOTE CONF
That's today, immediately after this lecture.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You walk from somewhere over here to there.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Near the bus stops.
If you if you're using the bus to get into
NOTE CONF
the central part of the university and the the central
area, Appleton Tower is this building with the green cross
NOTE CONF
here, um, near George Square.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
George Square, if you haven't seen it.
It's a little park, uh, with trees and grass and
NOTE CONF
stuff here.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Meadows, is is this area here?
I don't know if you've had a chance to get
NOTE CONF
oriented.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so everything about the course will be published on
the courses Learn page and the courses web pages.
NOTE CONF
Um, so things like, uh, organisational information, all of the
slides, all of the reading, all of the exercises, the
NOTE CONF
solutions to the exercises.
Once the.
NOTE CONF
You know, once they've passed and you want to see
whether you got the right answers.
NOTE CONF
Um, there will be a programming competition towards the end
of the course.
NOTE CONF
I'll tell you about that when the time comes.
And other resources.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
Let me just show you this.
NOTE CONF
You've probably found it already.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
This is the Courses Learn page.
Do you know how to get to this?
NOTE CONF
Anybody know how to get to it?
Lots of hands.
NOTE CONF
Anybody not know how to get to it?
A couple of hands.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, let me show you how to get to it.
NOTE CONF
Learn.
Uh, University.
NOTE CONF
Oops.
Spell it correctly.
NOTE CONF
Of Edinburgh.
Click on learn.
NOTE CONF
Uh, there's probably better ways of doing this.
Anyway, you get to a page that looks like that
NOTE CONF
with various options.
Your options will be different from mine.
NOTE CONF
And you click on uh, this course Introduction to Computation.
Uh, 202 4 to 2 025 okay.
NOTE CONF
So there's stuff here like a link to the to
the teaching materials lecture, the lecture slides and things, um,
NOTE CONF
and so forth.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, the, uh.
Why is week one not available?
NOTE CONF
I don't know why, but there should be, uh, there
should be a page for the stuff from week one,
NOTE CONF
including things like the practical exercises.
I thought I thought it was there, but, um, it
NOTE CONF
seems not to be yet.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'll make sure it is.
Um, anyway, there's stuff there.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so how many people have managed to find the
this this page?
NOTE CONF
Okay, lots.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I hope you had a chance to, uh, to look
through it a bit.
NOTE CONF
Um, have you tried how many people have tried to
install Haskell and have been successful?
NOTE CONF
Okay, quite a lot, but not everybody.
How many have tried and been unsuccessful?
NOTE CONF
A few.
Okay, um, you might want to go to the to
NOTE CONF
the labs either immediately after this lecture or in an
hour after this lecture in Appleton Tower.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, and for those who haven't tried yet, uh, give
NOTE CONF
it a try.
It's part of the first practical Physical exercise.
NOTE CONF
How many people have started on the reading?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Not many.
All right, well, it's the beginning of the week, and
NOTE CONF
I only told you about it yesterday.
Late.
NOTE CONF
Anybody finished?
I did.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
There's reading every week.
NOTE CONF
There's lectures every week.
There's tutorials every week.
NOTE CONF
And there's a quizzes every week.
I'll come to that.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Lots of work in this course.
NOTE CONF
But it's fun and it's interesting.
And you learn by doing the work.
NOTE CONF
So let me find my.
There we go.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So how are we going to teach you?
NOTE CONF
Okay, well, first of all, there is a textbook for
this course.
NOTE CONF
It looks like that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, it is a this this this textbook was written
for this course.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's an absolutely magnificent book, uh, with chock full
of everything you need to know with a little bit
NOTE CONF
of humour.
Okay, I know that it's great because I wrote it.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, it's, uh, you know, you might want
to get copies for your friends and relatives for Christmas
NOTE CONF
and things like that.
Um, anyway, you can get, uh, you need a copy
NOTE CONF
of this book.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You can get it for free electronically by going through
the library.
NOTE CONF
And it's accessible by learn clicking on library resources and
etc., etc. you can get a PDF copy of the
NOTE CONF
book and that's free.
Um, if you want a physical copy like this.
NOTE CONF
And of course you do want a physical copy because,
um, you'll you'll want to, uh, you know, get multiple
NOTE CONF
copies for your relatives.
As I said, um, you can you can get them,
NOTE CONF
uh, from three places that I know of, at least
three places right now.
NOTE CONF
Springer, which is the the publisher, you can see their
their name down here.
NOTE CONF
Um, they have a very good special offer of 40%
off.
NOTE CONF
And so the book is, uh, list price is 29.99.
And right now it's 1799 until, uh, 26th of, of
NOTE CONF
September.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that's, uh, that's a very good price.
Blackwell's has a 15% discount until early October, so if
NOTE CONF
you want to get it today, you can go over
to Blackwell's and, uh, pay.
NOTE CONF
Pay that much?
Um, or Amazon?
NOTE CONF
I looked it up, and right now it's, um, it's
29, 97.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, anyway, you need to copy this book and electronics
NOTE CONF
perfectly.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
If you can read online.
I personally like paper so I can write stuff in
NOTE CONF
the margins and so forth.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So there will be a signed reading every week, which
will be pieces of this book.
NOTE CONF
There are exercises at the end of the chapters that
you can try if you like.
NOTE CONF
Um, but the exercises for the course will be different.
So assessment.
NOTE CONF
There is no exam for this course.
I've opened week one if you want to go back
NOTE CONF
to it.
Enough.
NOTE CONF
What's that?
I've opened week.
NOTE CONF
One.
Are you open?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Oh, that was quick.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
This refers to the learn page.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Week one.
So in week one, there's, uh, the, uh, the tutorial
NOTE CONF
for functional programming, the tutorial for computation and logic, and,
um, the quiz for, for computation and logic is not
NOTE CONF
yet available, but it will be, uh, towards the end
of the week.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
Thanks, Julian.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So there's a lot of assessment, but no exam.
NOTE CONF
There's 41 items of assessment altogether.
Okay, that's four per week starting in, uh, over ten
NOTE CONF
weeks, plus one.
Okay, so, um, lots of work.
NOTE CONF
We give you a lot of work because we find
this is the way that you're actually going to learn
NOTE CONF
stuff.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, first of all, there are two quizzes each
week one on functional programming, one on computation and logic.
NOTE CONF
Um, these quizzes are, um, they should take you about
ten minutes.
NOTE CONF
They're easy.
The idea is to motivate you to go to the
NOTE CONF
lectures and do the reading.
Um, and the questions on the quiz are things that
NOTE CONF
you should be able to answer very easily if you've
done those things.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so not hard problem solving, but just, um, you
know, things that you should you should immediately know if
NOTE CONF
you've been paying attention.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, starting in week two, you've got the, the
functional programming quizzes.
NOTE CONF
They're due on Wednesday at noon.
Um, starting this week, you've got the computation and logic
NOTE CONF
quizzes.
They are due on, uh, at 4:00 in the afternoon
NOTE CONF
on Saturday.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
Why is this okay?
So, um, uh, the FP quiz comes after the FP
NOTE CONF
lectures.
The CL quiz comes after the CL lectures.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, uh, if you don't want to work on Saturday,
NOTE CONF
you can submit it before that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
The last the second HCL lectures ends at 3:00 on
on Wednesday.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're giving you we're giving you, uh, 25 hours.
NOTE CONF
Uh, in case you wish to use it.
But you don't have to wait until Saturday.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So there's the quizzes every week.
NOTE CONF
There are tutorial exercises every week.
They're due at 12:00 on Tuesday starting in week two.
NOTE CONF
And you'll have a tutorial meeting on Thursday or Friday
every week, starting in week two to discuss the tutorial
NOTE CONF
exercises.
Okay, so that's that's ten weeks times for items.
NOTE CONF
That's 40 items.
And then there is a programming project towards the end
NOTE CONF
of the course.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so, um.
Here is how.
NOTE CONF
Here is how, uh, the the points in this of
all, you know, all the points add up to make
NOTE CONF
100%.
Okay, so, um, each of the quizzes is worth one
NOTE CONF
point.
You can get fractional points.
NOTE CONF
Um, each of the tutorials is worth four points graded
from 0 to 4, zero, one, two, three, four.
NOTE CONF
No, no fractions.
And for these for these items for each of these
NOTE CONF
items, um, we take the best eight out of ten.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So you do you know, you do ten tutorials in
FP and you get different marks and we throw away
NOTE CONF
the lowest two.
All right.
NOTE CONF
And, um, so this, uh.
Well, this is partly to take account of the fact
NOTE CONF
that people have bad weeks and get, you know, get
sick and so forth.
NOTE CONF
Um, and it also allows us to, um, this is
this is kind of the flexibility which allows us to
NOTE CONF
say no extensions, um, no opportunities to resubmit, etc. if
you miss one of these tough next week.
NOTE CONF
Don't do it.
Don't don't miss it okay.
NOTE CONF
So you've lost.
You've lost one of your one of your ten.
NOTE CONF
But you get you have uh, nine others.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You understand that?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So, um, since we throw away your two worst grades,
if you, if you fail to submit one because you
NOTE CONF
know, your laptop crashed or something like that, um, then,
um, you still have nine other opportunities.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And the programming project is worth 20 points.
NOTE CONF
So this is a substantial, substantial thing.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is all the all the stuff in the
course.
NOTE CONF
Um, do you have any questions?
Anybody?
NOTE CONF
There's a question.
I saw your hand first.
NOTE CONF
You in the grey.
So for the functional programming and the computational logic puzzles
NOTE CONF
will have about 25 hours.
To so much more.
NOTE CONF
So you asked about functional programming and computation and logic.
We're talking about the quizzes.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So, uh, 24 hours for the functional programming quiz.
NOTE CONF
20.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
28 hours for thee.
When are you coming from?
NOTE CONF
When it's.
When it's issued.
NOTE CONF
Issued at noon, 28 hours.
It takes ten minutes.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So don't don't expect to spend 24 hours.
NOTE CONF
In fact, you only get half an hour when you
start it.
NOTE CONF
A timer starts.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I saw you next.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I'll tell you more about the programming project.
That's a little difficult because we haven't yet decided on
NOTE CONF
what it's going to be.
Exactly what I can tell you is there's going to
NOTE CONF
be, um, programming in Haskell, and it's going to be
on a topic which involves computation and logic.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, more will come.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
How do you get the solutions?
NOTE CONF
For what?
How do we get the textbook?
NOTE CONF
Uh.
How do you get the answers?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, the textbook exercises doesn't have answers.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Your tutors have access to the solutions.
So I suggest if you want to do the exercises
NOTE CONF
in the textbook, you try them out, and then you
ask the tutor if what your answer is is correct
NOTE CONF
or not.
Okay, I'm not going to publish the answers.
NOTE CONF
And they shouldn't be anywhere on the internet as far
as I know.
NOTE CONF
Okay, some more questions.
What kind of finite state autonoma or autonoma in general
NOTE CONF
are going to be covered in the computational logic portion?
Of course.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Julian, would you like to answer that?
NOTE CONF
The question was, what kind of finite state automata are
going to be covered in the in that part of
NOTE CONF
the course?
Just ordinary plain finite state automata.
NOTE CONF
Okay, okay.
Simplest simplest kind.
NOTE CONF
Is there going to be any like regex covered?
Um, yes.
NOTE CONF
We will talk about Regexes and I have an optional
lecture at the end about super Regexes.
NOTE CONF
Okay, that was about regular expressions, which has to do
with finite state automata.
NOTE CONF
You've done some either some advanced reading or you've done
this sort of thing before.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Uh, any other questions?
NOTE CONF
These were all people.
Oh, there's one back there.
NOTE CONF
I'm sorry.
Is the programming project group project or individual?
NOTE CONF
It will be individual project?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I sorry, I'm.
Not usually on our slides all nighters, though, because I've
NOTE CONF
just completely forgotten them all.
Yeah, all of these slides are online.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so all of the times and stuff are all
are all accessible online and and the lecture is recorded.
NOTE CONF
Um, did you have another question?
How did the tutorials get graded?
NOTE CONF
Was that what you asked?
Um, your tutor will grade the tutorials, so, uh.
NOTE CONF
Um, there is, um For the programming exercises, there's a,
uh, automatic testing, which is a first step in the
NOTE CONF
grading.
So when you submit it, it will be automatically tested
NOTE CONF
and you get access to the test results, I think.
Uh, partial access to the.
NOTE CONF
You get partial access to the test results.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, your tutor uses that as a as a first
step in doing the grading.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Anybody?
NOTE CONF
Oh, sorry.
Was there.
NOTE CONF
Here.
Um, just in case I missed any assignments.
NOTE CONF
Like, I just have to finish all of these, right?
Like, for the week.
NOTE CONF
So you're asking about the assignments for this?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So you're showing me the week one?
Um, the week one.
NOTE CONF
The contents of the week one folder.
So in there is the two tutorial exercises.
NOTE CONF
Those are due in in the second week on Tuesday.
And the, the quiz is due on Saturday this week,
NOTE CONF
but it hasn't been published yet.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Any other hands I didn't see?
NOTE CONF
Uh, there's one more.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, or book access?
Or is it.
NOTE CONF
Just like our.
Quizzes?
NOTE CONF
The quizzes are multiple choice, and, uh, you can you
can look at the book.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
All right.
NOTE CONF
There'll be more opportunities to answer, to ask questions later.
I'm glad you're, uh.
NOTE CONF
I mean, a room with this many students.
It's, uh.
NOTE CONF
It's it's hard to to raise your hand and ask
questions, so.
NOTE CONF
Well done.
Um, please ask questions that are important so you can
NOTE CONF
ask during lectures.
Um, you can ask other students.
NOTE CONF
You can ask demonstrators during the labs.
You can ask your tutor during the tutorials.
NOTE CONF
And important is the Piazza online forum.
Um, where am I?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um So going back to the course learn page.
NOTE CONF
Piazza.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Click on that.
You can ask questions and you can answer questions.
NOTE CONF
So, uh, there were already some questions that I've actually
was asked by email.
NOTE CONF
And I referred and I put them on Piazza to,
um, so that everybody got the answers.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So somebody asked me about, uh, drop in labs and
NOTE CONF
what they're for, and so I answered it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So you can ask questions here.
And the good thing about answering questions in Piazza is
NOTE CONF
sorry about asking questions to Piazza is that everybody can
see the answer.
NOTE CONF
And so I don't have to answer the same question
450 times, which is good for me, and it's good
NOTE CONF
for you, because if I had to do that, I
wouldn't have time to give you lectures.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And it's, uh.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So.
NOTE CONF
Who has visited Piazza, by the way, already?
Okay, good.
NOTE CONF
Good, good.
None of you have asked questions there, but please do
NOTE CONF
so if you have any.
And and answer questions.
NOTE CONF
If you see a question that you know the answer
to.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
There will be a prize at the end of the
NOTE CONF
course for the student who has made the best contributions
to Piazza during the course.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so in this course I've said there's a lot
of work.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um.
NOTE CONF
Don't fall behind.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
The work is all doable.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Some of it's more challenging than others.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's designed to to be at the right level
for where you are.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But there's there's a substantial amount of it.
NOTE CONF
You have to spend some time on it.
Don't expect to be able to do a tutorial exercise.
NOTE CONF
If you start at half an hour before the deadline.
Okay, you might need to spend a couple of hours
NOTE CONF
easily.
A couple of hours you might get stuck.
NOTE CONF
You might need to ask somebody a question to to
to to make more progress.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So you must listen.
NOTE CONF
Listen to the lectures every week before the tutorial you
must do the assigned reading each week before the tutorial.
NOTE CONF
It is a lot of stuff here about you must
do these things.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Top priority is tutorial exercises okay.
NOTE CONF
Because these are these are the main way of learning
okay.
NOTE CONF
If you don't do the exercises you won't learn.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, uh, I like to say programming is not a
spectator sport, and neither is computation and logic.
NOTE CONF
Okay?
You have to learn by doing it.
NOTE CONF
You don't learn it by reading about it or by
watching somebody else do it.
NOTE CONF
You do it yourself, okay?
And that's what the tutorial exercises are about.
NOTE CONF
Um, you will fail the course if you don't do
the work.
NOTE CONF
I mean, that's kind of obvious because you won't submit
stuff and you won't get points.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so who plans who here plans to do no
work and fail the course?
NOTE CONF
Anybody?
Uh.
NOTE CONF
There's one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
But there's the rest of you don't.
NOTE CONF
I hope that was a joke.
Okay, so keep up.
NOTE CONF
Keep up with the work.
Now, here is just, uh, something about the way that
NOTE CONF
Marx works at the university.
All right.
NOTE CONF
This might be different from what you're used to from
school.
NOTE CONF
If you've got percentage marks in school.
Okay, so, um, at this university, a mark of 100%
NOTE CONF
is rare.
Very rare.
NOTE CONF
It's possible to get a mark in this course of
100%, because it's possible to get everything right.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But it's not a normal mark.
NOTE CONF
It's an exceptional mark.
Uh, a normal excellent mark is about 70 or 75.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this this curve here is, is, um, designed to
NOTE CONF
explain that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we expect about 70% of students to be in
between 40 and 60 points.
NOTE CONF
Uh, percent.
That is okay.
NOTE CONF
We don't mark we don't mark to a curve if
you know what that means.
NOTE CONF
But this is the expectation in this university of how
the marks will be distributed.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what we do in this course is the, uh,
NOTE CONF
the tutorial exercises we have, um, three out of four.
The points are for so-called compulsory.
NOTE CONF
Exercises.
So we expect you to do these exercises.
NOTE CONF
And if you if you try hard, you can get
three points out of the four points.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And the fourth point is for optional exercise.
NOTE CONF
That's, uh, that's harder okay.
Sometimes much harder.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And that's so, uh, that's for people who aim to
NOTE CONF
be on the right hand side of this, uh, of
this curve.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, so optional exercises are optional in that sense.
NOTE CONF
They're forgetting the extra point.
So all all of the, all of the tutorial exercises
NOTE CONF
has optional optional part.
There's even some optional exercises in some of the tutorials
NOTE CONF
just for fun.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, what time is it?
Right.
NOTE CONF
So in this course you may collaborate.
So you can work together.
NOTE CONF
This is very unusual in this university.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
To be able to work together on work that you
submit for credit.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So you can work together, but you're responsible for knowing
NOTE CONF
the materials.
So when you go to your, your tutorial and your
NOTE CONF
tutor asks you why did you why did you submit
this program?
NOTE CONF
If you've copied the program from your friend and submitted
it, and you're not able to explain what you submitted,
NOTE CONF
you won't get any credit.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So your tutor will see.
You don't understand what it is you submitted and you'll
NOTE CONF
get zero for that.
Okay, so you can work together, but you have to
NOTE CONF
understand what it is that you're submitting.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
It's okay to ask your friends for help.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
It's.
It's okay to solve problems together with your friends, but
NOTE CONF
you must understand what it is that you're submitting.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Um, in other courses, this is not allowed.
Okay, so there's some stuff here about the school academic
NOTE CONF
misconduct officer and so forth.
This applies to other courses in the university.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is about things like plagiarism and other forms
of, uh, of cheating.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
In this course, we actually encourage you to, to to
NOTE CONF
collaborate.
It's a good way to learn.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And in the end, what you want to do is
NOTE CONF
learn stuff.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You're here to learn stuff.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, the first year, uh, your mark that you get
in first and second year courses, they don't contribute to
NOTE CONF
the kind of degree that you get at the end,
at the end of your fourth year, of your four
NOTE CONF
years, you get a first class degree, or an upper
second, or a lower second or third class degree.
NOTE CONF
The mark in this course doesn't matter.
For that, you have to pass the course to advance
NOTE CONF
to the second year.
Okay, so your mark has no effect on that ultimate
NOTE CONF
prize okay.
But what you learn has a big effect okay.
NOTE CONF
You need to learn this stuff to be able to
build on it.
NOTE CONF
In second year, third year and so forth okay.
So it's worth doing.
NOTE CONF
It's worth taking seriously.
Um, and I'll just say, uh, one final thing.
NOTE CONF
Um, uh, so yeah, do the work, ask questions.
When you get stuck, try again.
NOTE CONF
Don't fall behind.
And, uh, special message to those of you who've done
NOTE CONF
lots of programming before.
Um, you may think that the programming of this course
NOTE CONF
is going to be a breeze because you've done so
much of it.
NOTE CONF
Uh, that might end up being the case, but you
might be surprised.
NOTE CONF
It's, um, sometimes difficult to learn to think differently.
And you're going to have to learn to think differently,
NOTE CONF
to program in Haskell from what you will have been
doing in whatever, you know, Python, uh, Java or whatever
NOTE CONF
it is you've been doing before.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Uh, that's it for today.
I'll see you tomorrow at 2 to 10.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Unless you want pop ahead again.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Hi, Tom.
NOTE CONF
Good to see you.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
How are you doing?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Good.
When it's over the first time.
NOTE CONF
Always.
Even after all these years.
NOTE CONF
He's got a little free flight now.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
450 students.
And there's one.
NOTE CONF
More thing about that.